# southwestern-England-population-congestion-analysis
This is an expository dashboard display on the trend of population increase and surface area to buttress the dangers of population congestion in 3 select cities in south western region of England.
The data was pulled from Kaggle from the general data of population changes in the entire United Kingdom, hence i zoned down on southwestern england,cleaned the data and refined with SQL and exported to excel where i created a dashboard graphical illustration to spot a trend.
My Excel dashboard clearly exposed three cities of concern(swindon, Bristol and Cheltenham) where the significant increase in population over 20 years(from 2001-2021) is not matching a considerably large area therefore leading to a corresponding high people per square meter.
Of greatest concern is swindon with over 90% increase in population in 20 years but with an area of 230sqm making it the 8th smallest city in the entire south western region of England.
However,Bristol sharply follows with the 3rd largest population increase at over 17% and an area 110sqm as the 7th smallest city.Cheltenham's population increase has been minimal,showing that less people moved to Cheltenham in the last 20 years,yet it portrays the 3rd smallest area at 47sqm but with a staggering population per square meter of 2551p/sqm.
This concerns will translate to increase of environmental/industrial pollution, hike in accommodation rent and mortgage and most importantly, depletion of public infrastructure.
There is need for people to be sensitized about the possibility of living outside these cities and commuting to their workplaces using trains and buses.Industries and companies located within these areas should also look into making as many roles as can be possible remote and possibly moving to less congested cities/counties like devon while other cities/counties like Exeter, Gloucester and plymouth be avoided etc.
I hope you enjoyed my analysis(Now if you are looking for where to get pocket-friendly accommodation rent/mortgage,you know the cities to look at and the ones to avoid right?), i enjoy exploratory and descriptive analysis and i express myself through data storytelling using SQL,Excel etc.
